# Benchbase Setup and Benchmarking Guide
=====================================================

## Virtual Machine Setup
To get started, create a virtual machine with the following specifications:

* CPU: 2 x Xeon E5-2660 v3 processors (10 cores each, 2.6Ghz or more)
* RAM: 256GB Memory (16 x 16GB DDR4 DIMMs)
* Disks: 1 x 900GB 10K SAS Drive

## Cloning Benchbase
Clone the Benchbase repository by running the following command:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Preethi1609/benchbase.git
```

## Data Preparation and Setup
Choose the database you want to test on Benchbase and follow the corresponding setup instructions:

### Postgres
Version: PostgreSQL 12
Run `setup_scripts/postgres_init.sh` to install and set up Postgres.

### CockroachDB
Version: v24.1.0-alpha.5
Run `setup_scripts/cockroach_init.sh` to install and set up CockroachDB.

### Oracle RDBMS
Version: Oracle Database Express Edition (XE) version 21.3.0
Install Docker by running `setup_scripts/docker_init.sh`.
Follow the instructions in `docker/README.md` to set up Oracle RDBMS.

### Oracle Autonomous DB
Set up an Oracle Autonomous DB on Oracle Cloud Free Tier.
Add the IP of the VM to the Access Control List.
Change the connection from mTLS to TLS.
Create a DB user and get the DB connection string.
Update the config to connect to the DB using the JDBC interface.

### Data
The data need not be downloaded as it comes with benchbase setup

## Config changes made
Config files are present in the `config` directory. The changes made to the sample_tpcc_config.xml files of cockroachdb, postgres and oracle are:

1. Added the JDBC connection string for the database.
2. Updated `<scalefactor>` to 1,10 ad 100 to increase the number of warehouses
3. Changed `<time>` from 60 and 3600 in the config file to run the benchmark for 60 minutes.

## Building Benchbase
Run `setup_scripts/benchbase_init.sh` to build Benchbase.

## Running the Benchmark(Includes creating and loading tables and executing the benchmark)
Run the benchmark using the following command:

```bash
java -jar benchbase.jar -b tpcc -c config/postgres/sample_tpcc_config.xml --create=true --load=true --execute=true
```

Replace the workload and config file with the desired DB config file and workload.


## Application and code
Built with and for Java 21
Visualization scripts in Python3
Libraries used: 
- Pandas and Matplotlib for visualization
- Benchbase uses SLF4J for logging

Build tool:
- Maven

## Visualizing Results
Place the generated results in the `results` directory and run the scripts in the [notebook](benchbase/results/visualization/viz_results.ipynb) to visualize the benchmark results.

To run the visualizations scripts for results generated by us, replace the TODO in the notebook with the path to the results directory.

## Code written by us
Includes scripts to setup and run databases, scripts to setup and run benchbase, scripts to setup the environment(like installing docker), scripts to visualize results, config changes and documentation.

## Credits
This repository is a fork of the BenchBase project, which was originally developed by CMU DB group.

D. E. Difallah, A. Pavlo, C. Curino, and P. Cudré-Mauroux, "OLTP-Bench: An Extensible Testbed for Benchmarking Relational Databases," PVLDB, vol. 7, iss. 4, pp. 277-288, 2013.
